High in this video I would like to tell a few words about the principal component analyzes So let's
get started.
Basically the principal component analyzes give us a low dimensional representation of the data that
it is able to find linear combinations of features or variables that are mutually uncorrelated and basically
the linearly uncorrelated variables are the principal components.
So for example we have the haze in centimeter and we have the Haseeno meters.
They are not independent of course so we can't get rid off a single feature.
For example we can't get rid of the Haseena centimeter or we can get rid of the Haithem meters because
they are not independent.
We don't have to include both of the features so we can get rid of several unnecessary features and
we can keep the important ones basically principal component and alliances it is also good for visualisation
because we are able to represent high dimensional data or with low dimensional representation and you
may pose the question that OK why is it that important.
For example we have been talking about linear regression and we have come to the conclusion that we
can use gradient descent and we can use matrix operations.
But if the number of features are high the matrix operations are not going to be that efficient but
maybe if we reduce the number of features with the help of principle component analyzes we can use the
matrix representation as well.
Or for example we have been talking about supporting actor machines OK supper Raptr machines can handle
even infinit dimensions.
But for example logistic regression or name this algorithm are not going to work fine in higher dimensions.
But if we are able to reduce the number of dimensions and basically if we reduce the number of features
then we reduce the number of dimensions we can do if with principle component analyzes then we can use
logistically aggression and made his approach not just some back to our machines.
So sometimes it can be very important to get rid of the unnecessary features and we can do it with this
PCA.
So for example we have two features the X1 and x2.
And as you can see they are not independent in the sense that even the value of x 1 is small than the
value for x2 is small.
OK if the value for x y is great then the well you of x2 will be high as well.
So there's a linear correlation between the two features.
And that's why it's going to be the direction of the first principal component.
So this is the direction and we have another correlation basically in this direction.
So this is the second principle component direction.
How are we able to compute it.
PCA can be done by eigenvalue decomposition of a data covariance or correlation matrix or we can use
singular value decomposition of the data matrix.
Usually after means centering.
So we have to make some data transformation as we have seen for the nearest neighbor algorithm.
So this is why sometimes it's important to use principal component analyzes because we are able to reduce
the dimensions how by reducing the number of features.
And if you have fewer features than our algorithms will be faster.
Such as linear regression logistic regression or naive the algorithm answer watching.